# The hero editor

The application now has a basic title.
Next you will create a new component to display hero information and place that component in the application shell.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

For the sample application that this page describes, see the <live-example></live-example>.

</div>

## Create the heroes component

Using the Angular CLI, generate a new component named `heroes`.

<code-example format="shell" language="shell">

ng generate component heroes

</code-example>

The CLI creates a new folder, `src/app/heroes/`, and generates the three files of the  `HeroesComponent` along with a test file.

The `HeroesComponent` class file is as follows:

<code-example header="app/heroes/heroes.component.ts (initial version)" path="toh-pt1/src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts" region="v1"></code-example>

You always import the `Component` symbol from the Angular core library and annotate the component class with `@Component`.

`@Component` is a decorator function that specifies the Angular metadata for the component.

The CLI generated three metadata properties:

| Properties    | Details |
|:---           |:---     |
| `selector`    | The CSS element selectorof the component.               |
| `templateUrl` | The location of the template file of the component.      |
| `styleUrls`   | The location of the private CSS styles of the component. |

<a id="selector"></a>

The [CSS element selector](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/Type_selectors), `'app-heroes'`, matches the name of the HTML element that identifies this component within the template of a parent component.

The `ngOnInit()` is a [lifecycle hook](guide/lifecycle-hooks#oninit).
Angular calls `ngOnInit()` shortly after creating a component.
It is a good place to put initialization logic.

Always `export` the component class so you can `import` it elsewhere &hellip; like in the `AppModule`.

### Add a `hero` property

Add a `hero` property to the `HeroesComponent` for a hero named "Windstorm".

<code-example header="heroes.component.ts (hero property)" path="toh-pt1/src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts" region="add-hero"></code-example>

### Show the hero

Open the `heroes.component.html` template file.
Delete the default text generated by the Angular CLI and replace it with a data binding to the new `hero` property.

<code-example header="heroes.component.html" path="toh-pt1/src/app/heroes/heroes.component.1.html" region="show-hero-1"></code-example>

## Show the `HeroesComponent` view

To display the `HeroesComponent`, you must add it to the template of the shell `AppComponent`.

Remember that `app-heroes` is the [element selector](#selector) for the `HeroesComponent`.
So add an `<app-heroes>` element to the `AppComponent` template file, just below the title.

<code-example header="src/app/app.component.html" path="toh-pt1/src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

Assuming that the CLI `ng serve` command is still running,
the browser should refresh and display both the application title and the hero name.

## Create a Hero interface

A real hero is more than a name.

Create a `Hero` interface in an associated file in the `src/app` folder.
Give it `id` and `name` properties.

<code-example path="toh-pt1/src/app/hero.ts"  header="src/app/hero.ts"></code-example>

Return to the `HeroesComponent` class and import the `Hero` interface.

Refactor the `hero` property of the component to be `Hero` type.
Initialize it with an `id` of `1` and the name `Windstorm`.

The revised `HeroesComponent` class file should look like this:

<code-example header="src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts" path="toh-pt1/src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts"></code-example>

The page no longer displays properly because you changed the hero from a string to an object.

## Show the hero object

Update the binding in the template to announce the name of the hero and show both `id` and `name` in a details layout like this:

<code-example header="heroes.component.html (the template of the HeroesComponent)" path="toh-pt1/src/app/heroes/heroes.component.1.html" region="show-hero-2"></code-example>

The browser refreshes and displays the information for the hero.

## Format with the `UppercasePipe`

Modify the `hero.name` binding like this.

<code-example header="src/app/heroes/heroes.component.html" path="toh-pt1/src/app/heroes/heroes.component.html" region="pipe"></code-example>

The browser refreshes and now the name of the hero is displayed in capital letters.

The word `uppercase` in the interpolation binding, right after the pipe \(<code>&verbar;</code>\) character, activates the built-in `UppercasePipe`.

[Pipes](guide/pipes) are a good way to format strings, currency amounts, dates and other display data.
Angular ships with several built-in pipes and you can create your own.

## Edit the hero

Users should be able to edit the hero name in an `<input>` textbox.

The textbox should both *display* the `name` property of the hero and *update* that property as the user types.
That means data flows from the component class *out to the screen* and from the screen *back to the class*.

To automate that data flow, setup a two-way data binding between the `<input>` form element and the `hero.name` property.

### Two-way binding

Refactor the details area in the `HeroesComponent` template so it looks like this:

<code-example header="src/app/heroes/heroes.component.html (the template of the HeroesComponent)" path="toh-pt1/src/app/heroes/heroes.component.1.html" region="name-input"></code-example>

`[(ngModel)]` is the two-way data binding syntax in Angular.

Here it binds the `hero.name` property to the HTML textbox so that data can flow *in both directions*:
From the `hero.name` property to the textbox and from the textbox back to the `hero.name`.

### The missing `FormsModule`

Notice that the application stopped working when you added `[(ngModel)]`.

To see the error, open the browser development tools and look in the console
for a message like

<code-example format="output" hideCopy language="shell">

Template parse errors:
Cannot bind to 'ngModel' since it is not a known property of 'input'.

</code-example>

Although `ngModel` is a valid Angular directive, it is not available by default.

It belongs to the optional `FormsModule` and you must *opt-in* to using it.

## `AppModule`

Angular needs to know how the pieces of your application fit together and what other files and libraries the application requires.
This information is called *metadata*.

Some of the metadata is in the `@Component` decorators that you added to your component classes.
Other critical metadata is in [`@NgModule`](guide/ngmodules) decorators.

The most important `@NgModule` decorator annotates the top-level **AppModule** class.

The Angular CLI generated an `AppModule` class in `src/app/app.module.ts` when it created the project.
This is where you *opt-in* to the `FormsModule`.

### Import `FormsModule`

Open `AppModule` \(`app.module.ts`\) and import the `FormsModule` symbol from the `@angular/forms` library.

<code-example path="toh-pt1/src/app/app.module.ts" header="app.module.ts (FormsModule symbol import)"
 region="formsmodule-js-import"></code-example>

Then add `FormsModule` to the `imports` array of the `@NgModule` metadata, which contains a list of external modules that the application needs.

<code-example header="app.module.ts (@NgModule imports)" path="toh-pt1/src/app/app.module.ts" region="ng-imports"></code-example>

When the browser refreshes, the application should work again.
You can edit the name of the hero and see the changes reflected immediately in the `<h2>` above the textbox.

### Declare `HeroesComponent`

Every component must be declared in *exactly one* [NgModule](guide/ngmodules).

*You* did not declare the `HeroesComponent`.
So why did the application work?

It worked because the Angular CLI declared `HeroesComponent` in the `AppModule` when it generated that component.

Open `src/app/app.module.ts` and find `HeroesComponent` imported near the top.

<code-example path="toh-pt1/src/app/app.module.ts" header="src/app/app.module.ts" region="heroes-import" ></code-example>

The `HeroesComponent` is declared in the `@NgModule.declarations` array.

<code-example header="src/app/app.module.ts" path="toh-pt1/src/app/app.module.ts" region="declarations"></code-example>

<div class="alert is-helpful">

**NOTE**: <br />
`AppModule`  declares both application components, `AppComponent` and `HeroesComponent`.

</div>

## Final code review

Here are the code files discussed on this page.

<code-tabs>
    <code-pane header="src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts" path="toh-pt1/src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts"></code-pane>
    <code-pane header="src/app/heroes/heroes.component.html" path="toh-pt1/src/app/heroes/heroes.component.html"></code-pane>
    <code-pane header="src/app/app.module.ts" path="toh-pt1/src/app/app.module.ts"></code-pane>
    <code-pane header="src/app/app.component.ts" path="toh-pt1/src/app/app.component.ts"></code-pane>
    <code-pane header="src/app/app.component.html" path="toh-pt1/src/app/app.component.html"></code-pane>
    <code-pane header="src/app/hero.ts" path="toh-pt1/src/app/hero.ts"></code-pane>
</code-tabs>

## Summary

*   You used the CLI to create a second `HeroesComponent`
*   You displayed the `HeroesComponent` by adding it to the `AppComponent` shell
*   You applied the `UppercasePipe` to format the name
*   You used two-way data binding with the `ngModel` directive
*   You learned about the `AppModule`
*   You imported the `FormsModule` in the `AppModule` so that Angular would recognize and apply the `ngModel` directive
*   You learned the importance of declaring components in the `AppModule` and appreciated that the CLI declared it for you

@reviewed 2022-02-28
